(note the official version is maintained here:
http://midnightresearch.com/wiki/index.php/FAQ)

Q:  Why another wireless scanner?

A:  Existing scanners are great and all (kismet, etc), but the problem is that
    just knowing if an Access Point exists isn't enough information these days.
    Not many people care just to see that a access point exists, they are more
    likely care about some other goal, like if they can get to the internet or
    not.

    wicrawl adds a set of plugins that can determine this extra information for
    you so you don't have to check each access point individually.  When you
    combine this with profiles, you can tune wicrawl to get only the
    information that you actually care about.
 

Q:  What cards are supported?

A:  Please see the following URL for more details.  We are always interested in
    supporting as comprehensive a list of cards as possible.  Please let us know 
    if it is not working with your card.

    http://midnightresearch.com/wiki/index.php/CardSupport


Q:  I am using multiple cards, but I can't seem to get any that get to the
    netowrk.  What's going on?

A:  Make sure that the card that you are doing discovery from (by default the
    first card that is selected.) is of similar strength (wattage/antenna, etc)
    as the ones that you are running plugins through.  If the card that you are
    doing discovery through is more powerful than the one that you're using to
    run plugins, you may never be able to associate to out of range APs (that
    are in range for the initial card)


Q:  Is it legal to connect through other peoples networks?

A:  The short answer is to be completely safe, you're best off only
    connecting to networks that you own or control.  You should set the SSID
    filter accordingly.

    The long answer is that this is a grey area not covered by much case
    law.  The following link is a paper that examines and describes current
    ethical and legal issues.  Remember, at the end of the day though only
    you are responsible for your actions, so if you have any doubt about
    what you should be doing, make sure to filter the SSID list to APs that
    are controlled by you, or only use profiles that only do non-intrusive
    actions.
   
    "How to avoid ethical and Legal issues in Wireless Network Discovery"
    http://www.sans.org/rr/whitepapers/wireless/176.php


Q:  Can I use wicrawl as discovery only (like kismet, etc).  

A:  Yes, just use the discovery profile, and no additional plugins will be run.
    This should mimic Kismet usage, and you can still see all information
    through the GUI.


Q:  I have configured a plugin to run, but it never does, what's up (yo)?

A:  There are a couple possible ways to get into this situation:
	- Perhaps you never get to the proper event level for your plugin.  For
	  example if you have a plugin that's set to run during the
	  "have-internet" event level, but you can't get an address on the
	  network, the plugin will never run.
	- If your plugin for a given event level has a high run-level, and a
	  plugin with a lower run-level (so it gets executed first) increases
	  the event level before your plugin has a chance to run.  We hope to
	  add a way that a plugin can be configured to always run for a given
	  event level, even if the event level has been changed.


Q:  I can't see any interfaces in the GUI

A:  Check that you're running as root, and that your interfaces are "up" (a la
    ifconfig ath0 up)


Q:  What are "runs" as shown in the GUI?

A:  A run is a given run-through of the Access Point queue.  The queue is
    determined at the beginning of a run and will run until it's done.  At that
    point depending on what scheduling you use, the plugin-engine will get a
    new queue of APs to run on.  Runs occur even if you have discovery set to
    always run.


Q:  How can I help?

A:  There are a few ways:
	- Link to us
	- Spread the word, =)
	- Send us bug reports
	- Developer work, adding new plugins is easy, and a good place to
	  start.  Making our existing plugins more portable would also be a
	  great help as we add support for more platforms.
	- Distro support -- We'd like to be considered for being added into
	  directly into distribution specific repsitories, and this includes
	  security live Distro's etc.  Of course this is a lot of work to
	  support all of these, so we're looking for some help.
	- Check out the TODO list (in doc/TODO in the src), and see if
	  there's anything that looks interesting to you.

 
Q:  Who are those masked men?

A:  This is the developer list:
    http://midnightresearch.com/projects/wicrawl/#developers

    And this is Midnight Research Laboratories, the group that we belong to.
    If you're in the San Francisco Bay Area, try coming to a meeting some
    time, =)
    http://midnightresearch.com/

