wicrawl - a simple and powerful active wireless scanner and crawler
-------------------------------------------------------------------
Midnight Research Labs
http://midnightresearch.com/projects/wicrawl
-------------------------------------------------------------------

ABOUT:
wicrawl is a simple AP scanner with a flexible/simple plugin architecture.  The
plugins allow us to find out useful information about an AP so we don't have to
manually check each access point. Plugins are easily implemented by scripts, or
any externally called program. Profiles determine your usage type and dictate
the plugins you are configured for and also the card scheduling algorithm. The
plugin engine can handle multiple cards so you can crawl through multiple APs
at the same time. 

Most scanners are passive, and just check for the existence of APs. Now that
wi-fi is nearly ubiquitous, this becomes less and less useful. The need to go
through tons of APs is very tedious, and annoying. Additionally, there are lots
of other metrics that can be very interesting to know about an access point. 

STATUS && USAGE:
Run 'wicrawl' directly (should be in path after 'make install').  Profiles can
be changed permanently through the UI.  Plugins have limited configuration
available through editing plugins/your_plugin/plugin.conf.

Cards are not brought "up" automatically, you will need to do this before you
start the GUI, otherwise you won't see it.  You need to be root (or effective
UID to be '0') to run wicrawl.

In the UI you need to select a card that will do the discovery, and any other
cards that you want to do scanning with.  If you only have one card, it will
cycle through discovery and running plugins (since you can't do both at once),
and this is handled by the scheduling algorithm you select in the profile.   If
you have more than one card, the default is to keep discovery running at all
times, and only the remaining cards specified will run plugins.

COMPILATION:
Install everything listed in doc/BUILDING.
$ make
$ make -n install # test install run
$ sudo make install

make clean does what you think it will.

DEVELOPERS:
If you want to work on plugins, check out the plugins/example-* directories
for example template plugins.  Also, see README.plugins, and devel_notes.

KNOWN ISSUES:
- Card support is not clear.  If you are having problems check out the wiki to
  see if there is anything listed there.  If not, please send us a message with
  what card you are running, and how the support for it is. 
- No documentation (looking for some help here, =)

ABOUT PLUGINS:
See README.plugins for more info

ABOUT PROFILES:
Profiles are a way to make wicrawl work in a certain way for different use
cases, depending on what you want to accomplish.  Profiles contain, the card
scheduling algorithm, the enabled plugins you want to use, the run-levels you
want to use, and a couple other smaller things.  

Card scheduling: The options now are 'first', 'active', 'signal', and 'all':

'first' tells the plugin-engine to run plugins as soon as you see access points
to run them on (this implies that if you only have one card, that you stop
running discovery, so no new access points will be found during this time).  

'all' means only schedule plugins after you're reasonably sure that you have
all of them for this area.  There is a timeout value for the time since you've
last discovered an access point, and this is the measure of how "reasonably
sure" you want to be.  The timer is reset each time it sees an access point,
and you go until the timer reaches the timeout.

'active', and 'signal' scheduling types mean that you will schedule the running
of the plugins on these access points in the order of how active they are (the
number of packets), or the signal strength of the given access point.

ABOUT COMPLIANCE:
In the wrong hands, wicrawl could easily violate the government certification
of your radio.  A simple example is running injection plugins on frequencies
your radio isn't certified for in your geographic region.  Where possible,
we rely on the frequency tables provided by your radio's drivers, which
can usually ask the radio what region it's from and therefore what frequencies
are legal to transmit on.  However, some driver/hardware combinations can't
return this data (or even return wrong data!), so please run apcore in 
verbose mode to see if the frequency table we're getting is correct for your
region.  If not, please report it so we can fix the problem.

The fact that we try to avoid noncompliance isn't an assumption of liability:
you and only you are responsible for making sure that your tools -- including
wicrawl -- are compliant with the regulations in your country and region.

Screwing around with radio spectrum can be a major pain to the people being
interfered with.  Some of us at MRL are amateur radio operators, and we know
first hand what a messy interference problem can be like.  Remember: stopping
interference is the responsibility of the transmitter, and we all need to do
our part to keep our emissions within the lines.

BUGS & FEATURE REQUESTS:
Please submit bugs to wicrawl-cvs@midnightresearch.com.  There is also a users
list at wicrawl-users@midnightresearch.com which you can subscribe to to ask
questions, or just get updates, etc.

TROUBLESHOOTING
See the wicrawl Troubleshooting wiki page:
http://midnightresearch.com/wiki/index.php/WicrawlTroubleShooting
